# seq
<!-- toc -->
{% raw %}

## pConsvPerm

### description
Generate a null distribution of conservation scores.

### input
#### `seed`:
The seed to generate the random regions. Default: None   

### output
#### `outfile:file`:
A file with mean conservation scores sorted descendingly.  

### args
#### `len`:
The length of a random region. Default: 50  
#### `nperm`:
Number of permutations. Default: 1000  
#### `gsize`:
The chrom size file.  
#### `bedtools`:
The path of bedtools.  
#### `bwtool`:
The path of bwtool.  
#### `consvdir`:
The directory containing bigwig files of conservation scores  
	- The bigwig file should start with chr name: chrN.*

## pConsv

### description
Get the conservation scores of regions.
It uses wigFix to find the conservation scores.
But first you have to convert those wigFix.gz files to bigWig files using ucsc-wigToBigWig

### input
#### `bedfile:file`:
The bedfile with regions in the same chromosome  
#### `permfile:file`:
The permutaiton file generated by `pConsvPerm`, used to calculate p-values  

### output
#### `outfile:file`:
The output file  

### args
#### `consvdir`:
The bigwig directory, the bigwig files must be named as "chrN.*.bw"  
	- For example: `chr1.phyloP30way.bw`
#### `bwtool`:
The path of bwtool executable. Default: `bwtool`  
#### `bedtools`:
The path of bedtools executable. Default: `bedtools`  
#### `pval`:
Whether calculate pvalue of each region. Default: False  
	- In this case, the `in.permfile` can be ignored.

## pPromoters

### description
Get the promoter regions in bed format of a gene list give in infile.

### input
#### `infile:file`:
the gene list file  

### output
#### `outfile:file`:
the bed file containing the promoter region  

### args
#### `up`:
the upstream to the tss, default: 2000  
#### `down`:
the downstream to the tss, default: 2000  
#### `genome`:
the genome, default: hg19  
{% endraw %}
